	As many of you know Thiago or Thiagoch as he is known on Twitch and Discord was a staple in the Retro Twitch Speedrunning and followed many retro speedrunning and retro variety streamers. He used to be a very happy open guy and a welcome presence on the platform. Unfortunately, he wore many masks and acting very differently in private than he did publicly on Twitch. After I broke up with him as a friend after coming back from Brazil I spent months doing research and dusting off my old psychology hat trying to diagnose him and make sense of the relationship. Looking back he would do what is called in psychology, “Love bombing”, which is an attempt to influence another person with over-the-top displays of attention and affection in the early stages of our friendship and this is the beginning of emotional abuse. He didn’t do this with everyone but I know he did do this with some of his close friends, which opened the door to emotional abuse later. I did not have to deal with physical or sexual abuse like JkL, but I did deal with the insidious emotional abuse by him over 3 or 4 years. I had to deal with emotional outbursts, selfishness, poor communication, and my own self-doubt when I was friends with him. I was scared to say anything publicly because Thiago had close to 3,000 followers to my 500 followers on Twitch and he was in so many communities and I couldn’t understand what people saw in him after seeing the true Thiago. I wanted to explain what I went through and there is definitely overlap between my story and JkL’s, but I think that is his story and his alone, I have left most of those parts out. I’m sorry for the length of this story, but there was a lot to unpack and I learned a lot about being too trusting of someone. Thanks for reading.
	I just wanted to start out with a little bit with my Twitch journey. Around 2017 I started streaming for a block for the Cartridge Club, an online community, on their Twitch channel for a charity stream they started to host every year in December. In November of 2018, I decided to learn all of the NES Ninja Gaiden games as well as Ninja Gaiden Shadow for the Gameboy for my block on the Cartridge Club charity stream. I started researching videos on how to beat Ninja Gaiden and ran across Arcus’ beginner tutorial and noticed he had a Twitch channel. So I started watching Arcus Speedrun on Twitch and he raided different peoples’ channels like Prawnzo, JayCee, etc. I found a lot of my friends on Twitch through Arcus’ channel. 
	I started following JayCee and he raided Thiagoch during his Big 20 #10 preparation. I started streaming regularly around February/March 2019 and followed some other folks like Adultery after he raided me during a Beetlejuice (NES) speedrun grind. I think not long after Thiago found me through either other streamers or his recommendations and he followed and DM’d me on Twitter one day and we started talking on Discord pretty regularly. 
	He was very respectful and he always said I was too pure, which is another way of saying that I wasn’t a fan of sexual talk and innuendo, and that is very true. We talked a lot when I got home from work and I tried to send him a few links to job search websites because he said he was an electrician and wanted to go back to school one day. He always had a stream for his Twitch anniversary and another for his Twitch Affiliate anniversary. He usually played Castlevania in those days and a lot of people from the CV1 community would show up, and some of his friends that he followed would watch him stream. 
	Thiago is a tall, lanky, and skinny guy with Pectus carinatum (a chest deformity) so he was comfortable sitting with his foot on his chair leaning forward towards his screen, you could see his knee on cam and a few people on Twitch picked up on it and made his knees emotes on FrankerFaceZ. So, because his knees became a meme on Twitch Retro he made a lot of knee puns in addition to his sexual innuendo. None of us felt it was an issue and it was just his sense of humor. He tried to tell me that all guys make those jokes pretty early on in our friendship. He also joked about corrupting some of his friends and they would make sexual jokes when he was in chat.
	Thiago had been watching streamers since he was fired from his job in 2017 I believe, and last I checked he followed close to 1,100 streamers before he left Twitch and had made several friends after learning English, he learned English in about 1 year through pretty intense study and watching Twitch and Youtube. Because of this, he has a lot of English-speaking friends mostly from the U.S. In 2019, several of his friends in the CV community convinced him to set up a fundraiser goal to fly to the U.S. to attend SGDQ 2019 in June of that year. He was able to raise the money and I donated $50 or $100 towards the goal. He raised around $4,000-5,000. Unfortunately, when he went to the American Embassy to do his interview to get a travel VISA he was denied. The interviewer was very cold, denied his application, stamped his form, and asked for the next person in line. He was devastated and embarrassed and didn’t stream for several weeks afterward. I am sure this made him nervous about going to ESA.
Thiago caught a lot of flack from his Brazilian viewers for accepting such a large amount of money, thinking he was stealing money from these Gringos and he didn’t deserve it. This caused him to try to give the money back, and he started contacting every one of his donors asking if they wanted their money back. All of us said no and he didn’t feel he deserved the money and gave it to his mother. A few months later I found out that Thiago had moved out of his family’s apartment to live with a friend and a few of us donated money for him to pay movers so he could move back to Rio de Janeiro to live with his mom. His mom was barely making ends meet and he visited her in the 6 months he was living with a friend and she never had food. I believe it after hearing how much his mom made and how his sister stole or borrowed money from her. He moved back in with his family and his sister, brother, and mother were taking all of the bedrooms so he had to sleep in the living room. This was problematic because he had to wait for everyone to leave the apartment to stream. So he decided to save up some money to have a small room made in the middle of the living room. We all wanted to get him to stream sooner so a few of us gave him the money to have someone make the room. I think it was a few hundred dollars. 
Thiago has always loved retro games but has always had to play them on emulators on his computer, but a bunch of us wanted to change that and get him consoles, an upscaler, a capture card, and flash carts. So a few of Thiago’s friends made a Discord so we could all discuss what would go into Thiago into the setup, how much people could afford to donate, any physical consoles we might be able to donate, and how to ship the equipment to him. Eventually, we shipped it to him and he showed an unboxing. He was overwhelmed and really appreciated everything that he received. A few months later he found that his Famicom Everdrive wasn’t working and I had another one sent to his place along with an SD card. 
At the beginning of 2020 I went to AGDQ and Thiago was sad that all of the friends he liked to watch were at the event. He did go to a video game museum in Rio during this week, I bring this up because it was very rare that he went out with his Brazilian friends. Not long after that, we started to go into the pandemic. Thiago was depressed because he couldn’t look into school and a lot of people in Brazil were still going to work and cramming into buses and trains, so he didn’t like going out during the day. Rio also was having a lot of trouble with water and he was complaining on stream and in DMs about how terrible the water tasted, he said it tasted like clay and he and his family were having stomach issues because they could not afford a lot of bottled water. So I sent him a case of Zero Water Filters as well as some Lifestraws and a Lifestraw tumbler. He was happy to get them, but he was embarrassed that he couldn’t buy them for his family and lied and said he got them from a contest or a promotion, I forget exactly.
Around this time Big 20 #12 was happening, Big 20 is an NES multigame marathon hosted by Best of NES, and one of Thiago’s friends was thinking about entering and was practicing a game. Thiago kept chiming in during his friend’s practice and backseating, telling him which tricks to go for and how to do them. Then when he felt his friend wasn’t listening he would say something mean and sarcastic. This had been going on for a long time and his friend blew up at him and told him he never wanted to speak to him again, his friend blocked him and unmodded him from his channel. Thiago panicked and didn’t know what to do, he started frantically messaging all of his friends asking them how to get his friend to talk to him again so they could make up. Eventually one of his friends got the other friend to open up communication with Thiago and they made up. Their relationship was never quite the same afterwards and Thiago became much more guarded and less open after this.
I think it was the middle of this year when Thiago found that his computer was struggling to utilize the equipment he had been gifted, I can’t remember if it was due to an update to OBS or Windows. He needed a new video card, memory, processor, and motherboard so it was pretty much a new computer. He put up another donation goal and hit it pretty quickly. He bought the parts and put them in but his computer started to crash when it was on for a while. I had a long voice call with him and I went through as many Windows issues as I could, I suggested something basic just to rule it out and he said, “I used to teach people how to use Windows of course I tried that.” Then I started asking him about the computer components and realized he hadn’t changed the power supply after buying the new parts and was woefully underpowered. I suggested that he see if one of his friends had a power supply he could borrow to test this theory out. He had one of his friends visit him and the friend brought a computer power supply, they found that was indeed the issue with the computer. Thiago told me later that he had sex with that friend in his room, he hasn’t told his family that he is bisexual and that he had to be quiet. I am not sure if it was as a reward for helping him out or because he just wanted to have sex with someone, it was definitely casual sex.
I can’t remember if it was this year or the next, but Thiago was backseating one of his best friends, who is a fairly big streamer, who was doing a casual playthrough of a game. Thiago was talking very aggressively and pushing him to do certain strats and his friend got pissed and started chewing him out on stream. This friend would still come into Thiago’s stream and Thiago would give him the silent treatment. This went on for at least 6 months until they made up I think, I’m not completely sure. 
From watching Thiago’s streams I knew his favorite two runs were Castlevania for the NES and Tetris Attack for the SNES. He had been gifted a Famicom and an N8 Everdrive, but because the import taxes and fees in Brazil were so high we didn’t send him a Super Famicom or SNES, so I decided to buy him a Super Famicom and SD2SNES Flashcart to run Tetris Attack on real hardware. I bought a Super Famicom from a Japanese seller and shipped it directly to him as well as an SD2SNES and extension cord from a store in the U.S. He was really appreciative, but then he asked, “are you interested in me as more than a friend?” I was kind of surprised that he was interested in me, he was a staple in Twitch Retro and kind of the cool popular kid. I said I was and we started texting a lot more every day, and after a week or two of sending me different pictures of his body he eventually started sending me pictures of his penis, he asked if he could first. I think I sent some back but I felt uncomfortable with it. I talked him into a video call and he was lying in bed and he started by pointing his phone at his face and talking very sweetly eventually, he lowered the camera and pointed it at his underwear. He was playing with his penis a lot, I could see the head sticking out of the elastic band, and I eventually told him that I could see it. He said oh sorry and stopped, I think he ended the call not long after. After two or three weeks I told him to slow down because our relationship was moving too fast, I don’t think he liked hearing this. Eventually, he asked if I loved him, I was surprised that he wanted to hear this so soon in the relationship. I couldn’t answer and he said we needed to break up. I have to admit I was struggling myself to see how the relationship would work, he really didn’t want to leave his family and he lived in another country. I said I just didn’t know how it would work. I quipped when we talked later, “Maybe we were just horny,” and he later told me that he knew after I said that, that he didn’t love me.
A month later Thiago started realizing that he was losing eyesight in one eye. He started to panic and went to the doctor and got referred to an ophthalmologist for several tests. He mentioned it in his Discord server and set another goal for the costs of the examination and tests in his stream. I mentioned his eye issue in a mutual friend’s Discord server and he DM’d me saying I shouldn’t have done that. So I went back and deleted it. And then he got a bunch of DM’s from concerned friends on the server. He later streamed and I donated money along with some other people so he could have the tests and examination, it was met in one stream. Not long after, maybe the next few days, he was explaining that the eye doctor wanted him to bring someone with him to the office to bring him home. I asked him if he could have a family member or friend do it and he said he didn’t want to bother anyone. I asked him about his younger brother, he is autistic but he could be his eyes. I got stubborn and mentioned this several times and then Thiago got angry with me in a public channel and started telling me that I do these things at bad moments. I think I freaked out and blocked him and left the server because I was so upset. I stayed away from that server, unmodded myself from Thiagoch’s channel, and blocked him. After two or three weeks I wondered if I overreacted and unblocked Thiago. 
I sent Thiago a DM to apologize for overreacting and blocking him and he said I should tell him if something he did bothers me. He kept saying that it made him realize that he couldn’t have a relationship with someone from another economic situation and living in another country. I asked if we could talk about this over the phone and he said no because he was too depressed. He also said I broke his trust and he wasn’t sure he could ever trust me again. I messaged him again asking if we could talk over the phone and he said no again. After that, it seemed like he avoided me on Twitch and Discord. He gave me my mod badge in his channel back but there was this tension when I was in chat. On Discord still wouldn’t talk to me unless I messaged him first. He would still ask me how I was doing around special occasions though. I usually messaged him once or twice a week after our fight. I did tell him that I wanted to visit him in Rio in 2022.  
I kept watching and donating subs, bits, and money and we talked about Brazil and when would be a good time to visit. I noticed he didn’t like that I was in a few of his favorite friends’ Discords and Twitch channels and wouldn’t type in Twitch chat or Discord channels as much when I was there. I still donated money for special occasions and asked him about Brazil ahead of my trip. He asked me again if I was interested in him as more than a friend at the end of 2021 I think, and I told him no and he was relieved and to enjoy Brazil. I decided to go to Brazil at the end of August 2022 after talking to Thiago.
In May 2022 he talked to a bunch of friends and then told me he was sorry for the way he treated me the previous year and hoped I had a good stay in Brazil. We talked a lot about what to do in Rio de Janeiro. I had also been studying Portuguese with a private tutor on iTalki for about a year at this point. He sent me videos about Rio and I asked if certain places were nice to visit. After a few months the Big 20 list came out and Thiago decided to join, the runners had about 5 weeks to prepare, which will be important later. We talked about my upcoming trip a lot in the month leading up to my flight and I adjusted my itinerary to go to Brasilia and São Paulo as well.  
In late August I flew out to Rio by way of New York and Sao Paulo. This is when Thiago got a lot more chatty in his friend’s Discord, he started being nice to me and mentioning me a lot more, I think he realized that he was in the spotlight. I told him I was going to Rio first and I would be there tomorrow. So I flew out of DC and then to NYC and told him that I would be there tomorrow morning. He had never flown anywhere at this point, so he didn’t realize I couldn’t respond until I got to an airport terminal, so I had to explain that to him and he was understanding. After rushing through the Sao Paulo Airport, transferring my bags, and getting on the plane I flew to Rio, the last leg of the flight took about an hour. Before take off I told Thiago when my flight would be landing in Rio. After touching down in Rio I got my bags and waited for Thiago, he tried to get to the airport via bus but ran into traffic and took an Uber the rest of the way. This was probably midmorning on a Wednesday, he usually took this day off from streaming.
He got to the airport waited by the Uber station and asked where I was. I asked him if he could meet me inside by the large window/seating area and he asked, “Why do you not know where this is?”, and I said no. So he met me inside and I gave him a big hug, I always had to initiate the hug when I saw him, then the first thing he did was rattle off a long question in Portuguese, and he asked me if I understood him, and then I shook my head. After that he only spoke to me in English, he also told me he was part black which I thought was weird. Then we started moving toward the other end of the airport toward the Uber station. Then I took a picture with him and he made a derp face when I took the selfie. I was surprised at how tall he was, he’s probably about 6’1”/1.85m, maybe a bit taller in shoes/sandals. He also has huge hands and long rail thin arms. He kept saying how pale I was and that I was smaller than him. I’m probably about 5’10”/1.78m. He was hoping I looked more like a Brazilian than I did so I would blend in, I just shrugged and said this is what I look like. I took out about 1000$R from the airport ATM and he took a picture and showed it in a friend’s Discord and said, “he’s smaller than me!” He also told me that I took out so much money, and he could buy food for his entire family for a few months with that much money. I apologized and said I wanted to make sure I had enough cash for street vendors or anything else on my vacation. Then we grabbed an Uber, I messaged the owner of the AirBnB in Copacabana and we rode to the AirBnB.
The AirBnB was about a block from the Atlantic Ocean in a very good neighborhood, the owner met us and the doorman/security guard let us in. He asked Thiago, “Voce falo portugues? (do you speak Portuguese?)” followed by, “graças a Deus (thank God).” when Thiago said he did. Thiago had to tell him that I was the one that was actually renting the apartment for the week. We went upstairs and the owner spent 15 minutes telling Thiago in Portuguese how to care for everything in the apartment and then speaking to me in English about caring for the apartment. After he left I gave Thiago some t-shirts, controllers and other stuff that either I had bought or other people gave me to put in my luggage to give him. He commented on how much stuff I had packed (he wasn’t wrong lol), and he looked everything over and put it in his backpack. Then, he proceeded to talk for an hour nonstop about all sorts of Brazilian music, culture, and other things. Before I could say anything he pulled up a song by the Brazilian rock band, Legião Urbana called “Eduardo e Mônica” and sat there singing it word for word for five minutes. It was really strange. I think I just thought he was nervous and that’s why he was talking so much. He was also talking so fast I couldn’t keep up, he asked me a question based on what he had talked about and I couldn’t answer. I said I wanted to get something to eat and we went downstairs he saw a bar right across the street and said we should go there. We sat down for lunch and the server gave us the menu, mind you I had never eaten at a Brazilian restaurant, and I was looking over the menu for maybe 5 minutes and Thiago got frustrated because I was indecisive. He ordered chicken stroganoff for both of us and was happy that I liked it. After lunch he grabbed a bus, hugged him goodbye, and went home I unpacked took a nap, and went to dinner later that day. 
The next day I got up and watched Thiago stream some of his Big 20 practice. Usually, by the time he was done streaming, I could ask him if he was free to do anything. During this first stream that I watched everyone asked, “Where is Bassguy?” Then Thiago said, “He’s in Copacabana he doesn’t need a babysitter,” which I thought was a weird thing to say. After the stream was over I messaged him on Discord and asked if he was free and he said, “No, I have to babysit my nephew he doesn’t really listen to my brother.” I was disappointed but said that it was ok and I would look around Rio myself. I went to Forte de Copacabana and Copacabana Beach. I think this was the day I got lost because I was using an old phone and both my power bank and phone battery died when I was at dinner. I have a terrible sense of direction So I wandered around Ipanema and Leblon for 5 or 6 hours late at night before I found my way back to the AirBnB, I was tired and embarrassed that I never told Thiago the whole story. So I got back to the AirBnB late and got up late
The next day I got ready and watched Thiago stream more Big 20 practice and waited until he was done, usually around 12 or 1 pm and asked if he wanted to see Christ the Redeemer with me, he told me no and that he needed to save his money. I was pretty disappointed but decided not to tell him because I wasn’t sure how he’d react. So I went to have a late lunch and took an Uber to the cable car for Christ the Redeemer. I took a lot of pictures of the statue and of Rio de Janiero from the lookout. There was a beautiful sunset, but I was alone and I was questioning my decision to visit Thiago in Rio. Then I went to the famous Selarón Steps near downtown Rio, it was getting late so I took a few pictures and left pretty quickly. I went to a restaurant on Atlantic Avenue and took the leftovers and went back to AirBnB. I talked to Thiago and he said he was probably free all weekend to hang out. 
The next day, I think it was a Saturday I got an early DM from Thiago saying he could meet me in the afternoon and we could walk and stream a bit. I decided to get an early start ate breakfast and went to a few tourist spots in downtown Rio then Thiago messaged me that he could meet me soon and I went back to the Airbnb to meet him. When he arrived we chatted a bit and he said we could set up the streaming hardware quickly and leave. I set everything up and couldn’t get my capture card to work, I kept plugging in the USB-C cable and unplugging the cable trying to reset it in OBS. Thiago was on the bed texting some friends and he eventually complained to them about how long I was taking with my capture card. I eventually looked up the problem and took two or two and a half hours. Thiago was pretty annoyed and I said we should rush out, he asked if I had my metro card and I waved my hand and said, “Oh I’ll get one at the station,” Thiago got more frustrated and said, “Fine.” Then we rushed to the metro station and there was a line to get a card and Thiago got more frustrated. It turns out he wanted to show me the metro station he worked on, I was pretty embarrassed and kept apologizing for making us late and told him he should have just told me we needed to leave right away. It was winter in Rio so the sunset was pretty early. Around 5:30 or 6 pm, we took the metro to Ipanema and walked to Arpoador. It turns out he wanted me to see the sunset from this famous rock, it is very beautiful. When we got to Ipanema he talked enough for both of us and talked for an hour nonstop. We eventually got to Arpoador and walked to the top, a candy vendor asked if I wanted to buy some Halls (they’re more like candy in Brazil), and then he asked if I wanted to buy some marijuana and Thiago told him I wasn’t interested. We walked back and Thiago talked enough for both of us again and took the metro back to the AirBnB. We hung out for a bit and I tried to fix the stream setup and realized it was because I didn’t bring the right USB cable. I think around 7:30 or 8 pm Thiago turned white as a ghost and mumbled, “I have to go,” and he made his way towards the door. I managed to give him a half hug and his whole body was stiff. It was odd. After he got home and DM’d me I apologized for obsessing about the stream hardware. I went to dinner and went to bed. 
 The next day I DM’d Thiago if he wanted to do anything and he DM’d me back that he was very stressed out and hadn’t had a chance to stream and said he didn’t want to meet that day. The next day was Monday which is busy for his mom who is a janitor for her building, but he said he would talk to his family and work something out. So I decided to go to the Rio Botanical Gardens and Sugarloaf Mountain. It took me a while to get lunch. Then I went to the Botanical Garden and then Sugarloaf Mountain. I saw a beautiful sunset and had a snack on Sugarloaf Mountain but I felt a bit lonely and wondered again if I made the right choice coming to Brazil. I went back to the AirBnB went to the local pharmacy for a few things and got ready for bed.
The next day Thiago sent me a message early in the morning saying that he was going to stream and he could meet me in the afternoon. He was vague and I was a little skeptical that he would meet me after flaking out on me a couple of times. I went ahead and went to downtown Rio and went to the Portuguese Royal Reading Room and about an hour later Thiago DM’d me and met me a bit later. We went to the Cathedral of St. Sebastian of Rio de Janeiro, which is an unusual pyramid-shaped cathedral, and took some pictures, I took a selfie with Thiago and he made another derp face. Then we walked downtown past the aqueducts and I took some pictures. Eventually, we went to a local mall to look for a USB-C 3.0 cable for my Elgato capture card. We went to the electronics vendor section on the top floor and he asked all of the vendors for me and I found the cable. Next, we went to Bob’s Burgers named after a famous Brazilian Tennis pro and Thiago got approached by a tall young Brazilian guy that asked him where he learned to speak English so well. Thiago told him that he learned it from watching English-speaking streamers and gave him suggestions, but didn’t want to tell him that he streamed in English for some reason. The whole day was kind of weird, Thiago let me talk a lot more that day and pick where to go but the whole experience was weird. It felt like I was in high school again hanging out with a friend instead of two adults hanging out. I found out later that he asked one of our mutual friends if he should see me that day like he was having doubts about it. That friend said, “It would be a shame if Bassguy’s trip ended with a fight.”
Eventually, we went back to my AirBnB and started setting up the stream. I can’t remember if it was here or over a meal, but he said, “Well if we can’t get the stream to work we can do a “Just Chatting” stream to say we streamed. It felt to me that he didn’t want to do a stream, I hoped that when the stream started it would go better. Unfortunately, our chemistry was awful and we had never played retro games together so we didn’t know how to communicate and didn’t know each other’s tendencies. We had picked up some snacks earlier and I tried some Brazilian candy on stream. Thiago teased me for eating it too fast and not showing it to the camera. Not too long after that the TV we were using as the second monitor in the AirBnB started to flicker, Thiago switched to the SNES and played some Tetris Attack and the screen kept flickering. He got frustrated and told me we should stop the stream, I tried to suggest we use the laptop screen but he had, had enough and told the viewers that we were ending the stream due to technical issues. Then we went to the restaurant across the street and got some pizza. We talked about his future plans and he talked about swimming and getting a bike. Then he said, “I want to go to ESA next year, I’ll have a donation goal I don’t care how it looks.” He also said, “I know that people will always donate a lot of money to my channel on my birthday and Twitchaversary.” I was surprised that he would say something to make himself sound so entitled, he usually said he didn’t deserve money. We finished our meal and I walked him to the bus stop and hugged him goodbye.
	The next day I had to leave for the airport to Brasilia, I asked Thiago if he wanted to meet for breakfast before I left but understood it was last minute. He told me he couldn’t because his nephew was sick and I said that was fine and thanked him for showing me around Rio and I flew to Brasilia. He checked in with me each day to ask how I was doing when I was in Brazil. I think he felt responsible for me since I was in Brazil. After a few days of touring Brasilia, I went to Sao Paulo and after 4 days I went back home. During my time in Brasilia and Sao Paulo at the end of each night, I wondered if I made the right choice traveling to Brazil. I felt like a burden to Thiago and he didn’t want to host me in Rio. I enjoyed my time traveling by myself more than traveling with him. After traveling around Sao Paulo I flew home and after I got home the communication with Thiago stopped for a while. I still watched him stream and eventually, one day I spoke up during one of his streams, I said, “I wish I hadn’t visited you while Big 20 was going on, I felt like a burden,” and then he said, “it wasn’t you, it was my fault.” Then another one of my streamer friends who had raided Thiago said, “What you left Bassguy alone in Rio? What if you came to GDQ and we left you alone!?” Thiago got very quiet. My other friend said (I’m paraphrasing), “You shouldn’t prioritize Big 20 over a friend.” 
	A day before the Big 20 race I decided to talk to Thiago about my trip. I asked him if he was okay with me visiting and he said he wasn’t okay because he was dealing with a lot of family issues and due to our past together. I told him I thought we were past that and I was annoyed that we hadn’t had that conversation basically because he never wanted to. I also said that I could have paid for some things I just wanted to hang out with him, but he said he wasn’t comfortable with that. Then I talked to him about the jokes that he made about me were not appreciated and he said he would stop. He said in certain channels he would make polite jokes and be on his best behavior, but when he was in a close friends’ channel he could go “full Thiagoch.” The conversation kind of ended there. I talked about this a bit with my Portuguese tutor who I consider a friend and he said, “You’ve been talking about this trip for a year and what he did wasn’t right.” I knew he was right here. Below is that conversation between Thiago and I:

Me: “you are definitely right. I was talking about this with my tutor and he was sad for me and asked me for all the reasons why you avoided me, they were all just excuses. I had talked about visiting with you for over a year with him and wrote a bunch of Portuguese text about the things we would do when I came to Rio. I never told you that. It felt cathartic but I was still sad after talking with him. I flew 8000 km in large part to see you. You can point back to any old texts saying to make a point I don't care. He's right, I found out what your priorities were, you had a 6 month head's up to clear this with your family, and then there was the Big 20,  I knew that was going to get in the way, I just knew it; and keeping your family off your back was more important. They just felt like excuses, and I was scared to death to challenge you in the moment because of our past and you wouldn't go against your family even if I had tried. I don't expect an apology because you're always right and way too proud and can't admit when you're wrong. You can reply to this explaining away every last point of this statement it won't change how I feel. I thought this would bring us closer together I guess I was wrong. I will be cordial with you in our mutual friends' servers and streams but this really hurt the more I talk about it. Maybe things can go back to normal in due time.” 

Thiago: “Well, nothing that I can tell you can make you feel better. Because you want the things your own. I told you I wouldn't be able to move from where I am because I'm trapped here. I told I can't make plans my self, but it doesn't work for me because something goes wrong and I have to skip. Like my stupid graduation that I should do waay ago, but I kept my "excuse family", I tried to have a better life trying to get fat and doesn't work, I can't get expensive food, cause my family eat like bunch of animals. I couldn't help my self out cause. I can't say no to my family. I didn't want to have a relationship with you, because I can't have a life my self. It'd really nice feeling you can't control your life you know. It's really nice when you have a sister who fcking ruined your life, got pregnant, her daughter doesn't consider you as uncle, caused tons of problems period, made mom suffer for a lot of things. It's always excuses that I have a special needs brother who have to fcking go hospital and I had to stay by weeks, other time stayed for a whole month because I was the unique person to stay with him. It was fun thinking he had leukemic, I meet a friend on hospital and watched him dying for 1 month. It's totally under control things that happens with me. Mom 74 always having health issues and I can't do much to help watching her work and trying to help home and trying to make her life more comfortable sacrificing my own life. I told I would be happy to have you in Brazil and I was sure would be good for you meet new culture and places. You even agreed and I showed tons of videos about places you could go.
I would prefer leave alone than hurting people around. Funny tho, you were always wanting to know about me or my life, and honestly I have no fcking idea what you want to know, because I told basically a resume about what I work, what I like to do, things I shouldn't tell to other people, you know my tastes, you know I have sisters and brothers, myn dad left me when I was 2, back when I was 12 and never back again. And you know what I know about you? Almost nothing. And I never bothered or got annoyed to know. Idk almost nothing about my friends around twitch. I don't keep asking them much. I remember asking [___] about my legs being issue and she told I cold keep with her legs cause she has cancer and can't walk. I feel bad for whole week.
So yeah, I never want to talk about my family to friends, because they're nothing but bunch of problems at the most or bring problems to me. I would end up killing my self one day, I considered multiple times. But I don't think I will do that. It's just the voice telling what would be better to ease the pain. I don't know what else you want from me and I totally lost my mood about big20, waking up at night cause stupid sleep schedule and trying to be something to the unique thing I'm being "good" at the moment and now I don't know anymore. So I apologize again for making you lose your time coming to Brazil, pretty sure I can't recover the time you wasted, but as soon as I get a job I will try to pay you back everything if that makes you feel any better. Assuming nothing here worked for you and I ruined your dreams.”
	I was completely shocked and just said I was sorry about his family and thanked him for showing me around Rio and wished him the best. I was horrified because he blamed me for his family issues and realized he hated that I knew so much about him, some of the things I learned about him were from our relationship. We had another conversation a week later on WhatsApp. He told me that I made him feel like garbage he didn’t seem to think that he did anything wrong and said I put too much pressure on him for the visit and said he felt sad hearing he was the only reason for the visit because he wasn’t worth it and he didn’t want anyone else to come to Rio just to see him. I then told him that I was thinking about him a lot and I wasn’t sure why, I think I was still upset about the visit. He told me that he would always pull away from people he didn’t know very well or felt uncomfortable around (he should have told me that before I spent $3-4k on the trip). He told me that maybe I needed to take a break from Twitch. I took 2 or 3 weeks off of Twitch and thought about our latest interactions a lot, I realized he was escaping responsibility and trying to make me feel guilty for trying to visit him in Brazil. I started thinking about the silent treatment, lack of accountability, gaslighting, lies of omission, and how he always played the victim.  I sent him a message on WhatsApp saying I couldn’t be his friend anymore and that he should seek the help of a therapist.
	During this month I left a mutual friend’s Discord to get some distance from Thiago and told some mutual friends that Thiago and I weren’t friends. This was a big mistake, they started DMing Thiago saying, “I’m sorry about you and Bassguy,” a few people knew that we weren’t friends anymore based on our last interactions in Thiago’s stream, but others knew because I approached them. I watched a few of Thiago’s streams after the breakup and kept wondering if I made a mistake, everyone still loved him and showed up to his streams. After a while, I started to realize that he had a bad tendency to bring his bad mood to stream and would complain a lot about not being happy in life. When he did this people would give him bits and donate to his channel. I also started confiding in a few of our mutual friends and kept asking them if I made the right decision about Thiago and eventually, this got back to Thiago. I talked to one friend who thought that Thiago was completely over our breakup and this made me very upset. So I did something that I wasn’t proud of and followed him around Twitch. Even though we had blocked each other we could still see each other in chat if the streamer was capturing chat. I started making myself known, chatting more than usual, gifting subs, and donating bits. I also joined some of his friends’ Discord servers. This probably went on for a week or more and I started noticing in the viewer list that one of Thiago’s friends started showing up in streams that I never saw him in. I kind of knew that something was about to happen. 
	Not long after one of his friends told me that he had to kick me out of his Discord server and I was banned from his channel not long after, he told me to stop following Thiago around on Twitch and I agreed. I decided that I needed to seek therapy and looked into seeing a therapist because I was starting to obsess over Thiago and the breakup, I was looking at Quora and different psychology sites to try to diagnose him and make sense of his behavior when we broke up as well as figure out why the breakup bothered me so much. I also sent him an email to apologize for my behavior and following him around Twitch telling him I wanted to just be on speaking terms again for the sake of our friends. Another one of Thiago’s friends DM’d me saying that I had been banned from his channel because I was not staying away from Twitch like I said I would, I had tweeted out that I would be taking a break until the end of the year, and he banned me until the end of the year. I knew this was a lie and he was banning me to give Thiago a safe space. I think I was so frustrated because I had seen the real Thiago and they still thought of him so highly.
	I was struggling because of the emotional abuse I suddenly had to come to terms with from Thiago and had grown to hate my job. I was making a lot of mistakes at work and was distracted by all the things that went wrong in my personal life. I was fired for quality issues and I was upset for a while but kind of relieved too because I didn’t want to work there anymore, I took the job out of convenience despite the company having a pretty bad reputation amongst current and past employees. So I was living off of savings while I was waiting for my unemployment I started exercising regularly, applying for jobs, and watching Twitch here and there. 
	Around the beginning of 2023, I decided to unblock the group of people who had blocked me from their channels including Thiago, this was because one of them had promised to unblock me around this time. This was a bad idea because it gave Thiago a window of time to send me a YouTube video via DM on Discord, he sent the link and quickly blocked me again. The YouTube video was basically telling me to stop telling his friends about our breakup, and to quit “rolling around”, talking to the same people over and over about it. I was having trouble processing my feelings and was talking to a few of our mutual friends about it, which made Thiago feel guilty. He said if I couldn’t get over to, “talk to a Psychologist or something.” He said that he thought I still wanted to be friends with him, probably due to the email I sent him a few months ago, and said that wouldn’t work and our relationship had become toxic. He ended the video telling me to go and be happy and never to talk to him again. I was sort of shocked by the video and kind of amused because he was telling me how to act and made a lot of bad assumptions. Some of my family and friends said I shouldn’t have even watched the video. 
	I kept watching Twitch, exercising, and applying for jobs during this time. I was keeping an eye on the Thiagoch situation and during a weak moment I watched Thiago’s stream and one of his friends in chat made some comment about Twitch Retro. This caused Thiago to go on some long rant about how people in Twitch Retro should support each other and how we should all act on stream to each other, it was very odd. I tried my best to stay away from Thiago’s usual hangouts on Twitch started a few speedrun projects and streamed a little bit during February and March.
	I think around this time I started watching JkL and followed him. JkL also gifted me a sub. I also started to realize that Thiago was in there pretty regularly and I didn’t feel like I should be in there and unfollowed. Then I felt that this was wrong and that I shouldn’t let Thiago dictate which channels I should follow and refollowed JkL. I also joined JkL’s Discord and then Thiago left, I messaged JkL he could kick me if he wanted but he never did, I think he didn’t agree with Thiago’s decision because we had each other blocked, that and it was pretty immature of him. Around this time Thiago decided to do a fundraiser to go to ESA getting large donations from many of his regulars and a few of the bigger Castlevania runners because he was expected to run CV1 at Summer ESA. What was odd was that he asked a few of his close friends on Twitch if he should do the fundraiser or not. I would periodically check his channel to see if he would meet his goal. I was out of work but I still decided to go to a few events, like ESA, because I felt I was going to get a job it was only a matter of time. 
	In April I went to a retro gaming convention just because I was sick of being stuck at home waiting for responses from employers. So I flew out to the convention and met my friend at the airport, some of his friends were coming the next day so it was just the two of us. We talked about some of our past relationships he had just gotten out of a relationship with a narcissist and I talked about the emotional manipulation I had been through dating and being friends with Thiago, and how our friendship was always hot and cold and because Thiago was so emotionally unstable I was always thrown off-balance when I dealt with him. You never really knew whether Thiago would be super happy or moody and angry and want to rip your head off from day to day or moment to moment. I think a lot of people gave him too much rope because of his financial and home situation, i.e. being around in case his younger brother and mom needed him, also he had a very difficult upbringing so people let a lot of things slide. 
	After I got back from the convention I practiced and submitted my speedrun games to ESA. I checked to see what everyone was submitting, including Thiagoch. The month came and went and I saw that Thiago got a big chunk of money was donated to his ESA funds around his Twitch affiliate anniversary. The next month we all heard back from ESA and Thiago and I both got runs into ESA Summer, not long after I was watching another streamer that was set to go to ESA, and then Thiago said, “oh I don’t know if I can go to ESA and leave my brother and mom,” I was dumbfounded because so much money had been raised and he had to buy the plane ticket soon. At the end of the month before Memorial Day I interviewed for a government job. The next month I went to a get-together to meet some streamer friends and I told one of the organizers that I was kind of feeling overwhelmed due to the Thiago situation and my employment situation and that I might break off from the group a lot. It was good to get out of the area for a bit, but Thiago was still on my mind. I think I was overwhelmed because it was getting close to ESA Summer and he would be there. I hung out with my friends and went to a few meals on my own and had a good time. Every time I came back from some event like this I was sad because I was still out of work. Thankfully I was sent a job offer not long after. I started working at the end of June.
	At the end of June and the beginning of July, I was watching JkL stream and Thiagoch was a mod on the channel, JkL captured his chat on screen so we could see each other’s chat. At the beginning of July Thiago flew into Copenhagen and traveled to Sweden to see JkL. Not long after Thiago got settled at JkL’s place they started doing some co-op streams and I dropped in when I could. At this point, I was watching at work when I had a break or on the weekend. When Thiago saw my name in chat he never read whatever I posted in chat he would always let JkL read it. I found out later that he told JkL he didn’t like me being in there, JkL told him that everyone is welcome in chat and would always say hi to me. On one stream Thiago mentioned that JkL was paying for his food while he was in Sweden, which was very generous. I didn’t want JkL to be stressing out about money during Thiago’s stay so I donated, I don’t think Thiago liked that I did that during a co-op stream with one of his friends.  
	A few weeks later I flew to Sweden. I was a little bit nervous because I was low on money but I also wanted to see the country, so I booked several tours in Copenhagen and Sweden during the week of ESA. I flew into Copenhagen on the first day of ESA, the third Saturday of July and got to the airport in early afternoon. . After I put my luggage in a locker at the airport I went on a food tour of Copenhagen, caught a train, and got to the event in the early evening. I went into the venue and got my badge and started looking around. I met my roommate for the event and explained to him that Thiago and I had a falling out, and he told me not to worry because Thiago was obsessed with practicing for his Castlevania run in the corner of the practice room. I went to the practice room and introduced myself to some of my Twitch friends and then I went downstairs and hung out at the bar for a while. I noticed Thiago wasn’t around and later I went to check out the arcade and he was on one of the two pinball machines, I went on the other that was near the other wall then he saw me then he finished his game, and left the arcade. It turns out he went out and talked with JkL off to the side of where everyone was sitting and went upstairs. After a while, we all went to bed.
	The next day I got up early and went to Copenhagen to go on a walking tour. I decided to go out in shorts and a T-shirt which was a bad idea, about halfway through the tour it started raining pretty hard. I didn’t have an umbrella either so I was soaking wet. I came back to the event early in the afternoon and went up to the room to shower and change clothed. I went back downstairs and met some friends. I talked to someone at the bar and found out that Thiago was definitely not happy that I was there, then JkL sat with us. We started talking and I brought up Thiago he told me not to worry about Thiago and that the group and event were big enough that we didn’t really have to deal with each other. Thiago mostly stayed in his room, the arcade or practice rooms. That evening we all watched the several of our friends run NES games during the retro block in Stream 1. Thiago kicked off the block with a Castlevania, whip only run, and did very well. Afterwards, I went into the arcade that night to try out some other machines and sure enough, Thiago was in there and left not long after seeing me again. I went to the practice room to practice my Monster Party run, hung out with some friends, and went to bed.
	The next day I went to go indoor rock climbing and rushed back to the hotel to eat. A few hours later I sat in Stream 2 to watch a friend run and a game. My game was up next. I ran Monster Party, when I looked at the VOD later Thiago was in the audience along with the rest of the NES crew. The run went really well, I played it safe and let the game speak for itself. The last run of the Retro block was Flicky by Thiagoch with JkL on comms. His run went ok but wasn’t up to his standards so Thiago joked with JkL and the donation reader to take his mind off of his run, after the NES crew went to play kubb a Swedish yard game in a nearby park. Thiago was missing, I think people tried to get him to go but I guess he didn’t want to. I wasn’t sure if it was because of me or not at the time. I went with some of the group to get a burger afterwards and then we came back and hung out at the bar. I can’t remember if Thiago was around, but one of his friends came to visit and they were playing some games up in the practice room. I think I went to bed relatively early because I had an all day tour of Copenhagen, Lund and Malmo the next day.
	The next day which was Tuesday, I got breakfast and went to Stream 1 to watch my NES speedrunner friends run their games for the retro block late that morning. There were a lot of tech issues, I think the capture card lost sync and the audio dropped during the first run. Thiago was on comms with his friend were using my console and the and the audio dropped out during his friend’s run. This was a shame but there are a lot of moving parts and when it came for my run and I was told to, “just roll with it,” I just kept running my game without audio. I’m guessing there was some desync that happened with the capture card because my console works when I use the same upscaler.  The rest of the retro block went really well and afterwards we all ran to play mini golf. I found out later that Thiago was invited and didn’t want to go. Half of the group went to get burgers and the other half of the group went to get pizza after minigolf. I decided to get a burger because I wasn’t in the mood for banana curry pizza lol. 
	The next day, Wednesday, I got up early, ate and took the train to downtown Copenhagen to get on the tour bus. The tour was alright it barely scratched the surface of the three cities, but the bus had wifi and I made sure to watch my friends run on ESA’s Twitch pages. I got back to the hotel in the early evening and I got something to eat and looked to see where everyone was. I hung out with some people outside that were vaping and smoking and we sang along to some classic pop songs and went to bed later that night. I found out that Thiago had joined in with some of the yard games the Swedish runners had brought. I got something to eat with my roommate and played some games in the practice room, I think I practiced my run for the next day which was Barbie. It was added late due to a cancellation.
I had signed up for the ESA Dinner Thursday night and I realized I had forgotten an undershirt to wear under my button up shirt. So I did a lot of running around the mall across the street and wasn’t around much. I went to the practice room where they were playing Micro Machines for the SNES with a multitap which was super fun. I think I was watching over Thiago’s shoulder and he got spooked and put the controller down and offered it to anyone who wanted to play. So I played for a little bit. I went to the ESA Dinner and the food was good the people I was sitting with were a bit awkward to talk to but were nice. I was sitting at one of the outside tables so I couldn’t hear the organizers super well when they spoke. Later that night I found Jkl and Thiago along with two other people playing a board game in the board game room and asked if I could sit down and play with them. JkL told me that was fine and Thiago didn’t say anything. JkL started to explain the rules and I remember Thiago asked for clarification of a rule. Brazilians are very demonstrative when they speak and use a lot of different hand gestures, I guess I hadn’t been sat that close to Thiago in a long time and I had forgotten how big his hands were, and he was a little physically imposing despite being hunched over in his chair. Another thing I noticed was that he was constantly in long sleeves, I think he was embarrassed about his long skinny arms. He started stabbing the table with his long index finger when he asked JkL a question about the game we were playing. After the game was over some of us went down to the bar and a few people retired to their rooms for the night. 
The last I was at ESA was Friday. That day was very relaxed and we all just hung out and played board games, console games, and chatted. Then in the afternoon we all gathered to play Boule outside of the hotel restaurant, which is similar to Bocci. Everyone gathered by the bar/front entrance of the hotel, Thiago was one of the last people to join. We split into teams and I noticed JkL had been drinking but didn’t think anything of it because a few other people were a little buzzed. I was starting to get sick and had laryngitis, I had lost my voice, but I still kept talking which probably wasn’t the best idea. My throat was bothering me so I bought a bottled Diet Sprite from the front lobby. I put it off to the side and didn’t see it when we left.
After Boule we all went to the park and I noticed that Thiago was pulling an empty Diet Sprite bottle out of his backpack. I walked over to him and told him I think that you might have picked up my bottle and I had been sick and to not drink out of it. JkL saw me walk over and ran over to see what we were talking about, he seemed really stressed out and nervous that we were talking. Thiago showed me the bottle and gave me a dirty look and didn’t say anything, someone else told me that Thiago bought that soda and he didn’t grab my bottle. Then JkL nervously made a joke and we started our game of Kubb. I was teamed up with Thiago and we mainly just talked about our approach to the game with each other or handed each other sticks for the game. After the game was over we all broke into group and started talking, I was talking to a few of the European runners and Thiago was around. I wanted to include him and make him feel comfortable so I started talking about CV1 and one of his friend’s approach to speedrunning. After the conversation was over he snuck off to a nearby park bench and played with his phone. I realized then that he just wasn’t comfortable in these large social gatherings.  Some of my retro speedrun friends had a game showcase later that night so we all went back to the hotel and watched it, I don’t think Thiago was in the audience this time, and then I went to bed.
The next day I had to fly home. I thanked everyone for hanging out with me via Discord while I was waiting for my flight. Nothing really out of the ordinary happened on the return flight. The plane had to be rerouted because of thunderstorms which made me get home a few hours late, but otherwise it was pretty uneventful. The next week at work I watched a bit of JkL when I had free time. I noticed that JkL was uncomfortable streaming with Thiago and even started up JkL’s stream one day when JkL was asleep, and it kind of freaked him out and he ran over and checked to see if his stream settings were ok. Their drinking stream was really forced because Thiago just wanted to make JkL happy and maybe to see what if felt like to be drunk. Thiago kept saying that he must not get drunk easily, but I don’t think he drank enough from what I saw on stream. I watched the farewell stream and JkL seemed almost relieved when Thiago left but I wasn’t sure why. Later that day he texted me on Discord. I had sent him a text a while ago and he apologized for taking so long to get back to me he was afraid of Thiago seeing him texting me and becoming angry. Then we vented about Thiago, I don’t want to say what was said, but obviously something was wrong. Over the next few weeks JkL and I talked back and forth on Discord about Thiago until one day I said I was going to send Thiago a letter to his apartment in Rio based on some of the conversations I had with JkL. This was a big mistake because I was not in the right frame of mind, the letter was too forceful and too vague in some parts to protect some people. It was me trying to tell Thiago that he needs to stop being so lewd and sexual all the time and being so passive-aggressive saying that all these people didn’t owe it to him to come to ESA and they had their own lives to live. He started asking different people about his behavior at ESA and mentioned that someone had sent this letter saying that he was egotistical, perverted, and weird. He was also trying to see if anyone agreed with what I said in the letter. Eventually, he started telling people publicly in different chats about the letter and sometimes waited to do this while I was in chat, he did this in JkL’s chat before he was banned.
Around this time he was preparing for SegaCrew’s Sega8 marathon race. I looked at a stream bot in one of my friend’s Discords and saw he was doing 8-10 hour streams preparing for it. Around this time JkL let a few of us know a little bit about what happened at ESA. At this point, I think people were starting to hear murmurs about the situation and by the end of October or beginning of November, it had gotten back to Thiago. He was only streaming once every 7-10 days in November from checking SullyGnome. At the end of November, I received a request from Thiago via a friend that he wanted to talk about the letter I had written and apologize for treating me so badly. We had a very long call and he apologized for our bad communication over the years and that it was his fault. We mostly talked about old times and I encouraged him to get help for his sex addiction. He knew what he did to JkL and he seemed contrite, but he wouldn’t talk about it directly. Oddly enough he decided he didn’t want to talk about the letter despite saying it was confusing to him. I talked to him a little bit in Discord DMs afterward and he had started removing himself from all the Discord servers and unmodding himself from different Twitch channels at this point. I started crying because he was a good friend to me once, but I knew I couldn’t trust him again and that what he did to JkL would always be in the back of my mind, it was a flood of emotions. I also don’t know what was the real Thiago. He was a staple in Twitch retro, but I knew he had to leave and it was for the best for everyone. 	
I think what was one the sad about Thiago is that none of us knew who he actually was, I don’t think Thiago really knew who he was. He never dealt with the early trauma from his life of the terrible pneumonia infection, his father leaving him early in life or the molestation that he experienced, of course your past is never an excuse for your present and he never should have sexually assaulted JkL. My point is that he was always trying to blunt the emotional pain that he was going through, by watching anime, playing video games, watching Twitch, casual sex, etc., and he never game to grips with his own issues. This made him irritable and moody and it became worse as time went on, he was really the happy and open Thiagoch that I knew back in 2019. Also, I’m not mad at anyone for protecting him, those people were doing what they thought was right at the time and didn’t really know the real Thiago. I would just encourage anyone in that situation to talk to both sides first before making a decision. 
I was going to use these last few paragraphs to psychoanalyze Thiago, but I should leave that to the professionals. I hope he gets the help he needs and realizes that what he did could have put him in jail. I hope he atones for the horrible thing that he did and that he is truly sorry for what he did. This affected not only the community at large but each individual who was a friend or acquaintance with Thiago. He had made deep connections with several people in the community and now many of his friends are left with a hole in their life and more questions than answers. 
